# Nequick-G
This is a python implementation of the Nequick-G ionospheric correction model described in European Space Agency's Galileo Ionospheric Model. Ionospheric disturbance flags are not implemented

Reference: Ionospheric correction Algorithm for galileo single frequency users (2016)
https://www.gsc-europa.eu/system/files/galileo_documents/Galileo_Ionospheric_Model.pdf

## Installation
This module depends on numpy for computation, and matplotlib and Basemap for plotting.
In ubuntu they can be installed via:
```bash
sudp apt-get install python-numpy
sudo apt-get install python-matplotlib
sudo apt-get install python-mpltoolkits.basemap
```

This module doesn't require installation to your python environment's site-packages.
Simply write scripts in the same directory as this project and import the necessary classes
## Main classes

### NequickG_global:

The global ionosphere's electron density, as described by the Nequick model,
 is fully defined by two types of inputs:
 time `(month and universal time)` and broadcast coefficients `(a01, a02, a03)`.
 Once the `NequickG_global` object is instantiated, it can be used to calculate
 slant TECs and act as a factory for "local" NequickG objects

### NequickG:

`NequickG` objects are models of the ionosphere localised to a particular longitude and latitude.
 It is generated by giving a position input to the `Nequick_global`'s `get_Nequick_local` method.
 Internally, it contains the topside and bottomside models that constitutes the NequickG model.
 `NequickG` objects allows calculation of vertical electron density profiles and vertical TEC

### Ray:

Ray objects specify a straight line propagation path. Used mainly with
`NequickG_global` objects for slant TEC calculations. Relevant routines, such as determining the validity
of the propagation path or the altitude along the path, are contained in this class.

### NEQTime / Position / GalileoBroadcast:

These classes wrap and group the input parameters of the Nequick-G model into meaningful concepts.
Also used to implement "approximate equality" just in case it is needed.

Example of approximate equality: `[40.2N 0.3W]` == `[40N 0E]`

## Usage
Example usages of these classes are provided in the task folder.

If you need any more information, have any suggestions or noticed any bugs,
do open a new Issue on this repository

## Known issues
For low solar activities, like that listed in the validation table. F1 critical frequency
can become negative. This is unphysical and likely to mean that there is a bug in the implementation.
